##RUNNING THE SCRIPT
The script is intended to be run with the UCI HAR Dataset folder created from the unzipped data as your working directory. The script assumes the data will be in the original folders created when the data was unzipped. The script relies on the **dplyr** package and **tidyr** packages. 
##PROCESSING OF RAW DATA
In order to construct a data frame from the dispersed data, the script will read all the text files in the test and train folders into R using the read.table() function. In addition to the accelerometer data in the test and train folders the variable names and activities are read from features.txt and activity_labels.txt. They are transferred to character vectors so they could be used later in providing descriptive names.

The script next creates two data frames, one containing the test data (*testtotal*) and the other the train data (*traintotal*) by using the **cbind()** function to combine the various data frames created from the text files. The subject ID numbers are put in the first column, the data corresponding to the activities in the second column, and all of the measurements in the X_test or X_train files comprise the rest of the data frame. 

After these two data frames are created the script clears the previous data frames to free up memory. A character vector containing the character strings “Subject” and Activity” along with the character vectors previously created from features.txt is then created and used to assign column names to the *testtotal* and *traintotal* data frames. The data frames are then converted into a data frame tbl using the **tbl_df()** function from the **dplyr** package so the **dplyr** functions will work properly. 

These two data frames are then combined using the **rbind()** functions. As the two data sets had no values in the "Subject" column in common this is an easy way to unify the data into a single data frame. The new data frame is called *totaldata*. 

The assignment requires the means and standard deviations of the measurements to be separated from the data. This was interpreted as the variables with either "mean()" or "std()" in their names. The **gsub()** function is applied to replace "mean()" or "std()" with "MEANKEEP" or "STDKEEP" in the character vector previously used to label the columns. The **make.names()** function is then applied to the modified character vector that is subsequently applied to the column names of *totaldata*.

It was necessary to do this because the **dplyr** functions will not work properly unless the column names are properly formatted. If the **make.names()** function is used on the unaltered column names it would replace the "()" in "mean()" or "std()". This makes it difficult to separate the desired variables from other variables with “mean” or “std” in their title that are not mean or standard deviation measurements. By changing "mean()" and "std()" with **gsub()** to "MEANKEEP" and "STDKEEP" the script identifies the variables needed for the tidy data, makes the columns distinct from other variables with the phrase "mean" or "std", and puts the title in a form that will not be altered by the **make.names()** function.

The **arrange()** function of the **dplyr** package is then used to organize *totaldata* by "Subject" and then "Activity". In order to fulfil the requirement for descriptive activity names, the "Activity" column of totaldata is converted into a factor vector with labels corresponding to the activity names in activity_labels.txt. When read into R the order of the labels corresponds to their numeric labels (i.e. the first label name has a numeric label of 1). This insures the correct activity labels are applied to the correct numbers in the activity column. 

The **select()** function of the **dplyr** package is then used by the script to create a new data frame called *desireddata*. The columns of *desireddata* are "Subject", "Activity", and the columns containing the phrase "MEANKEEP" or "STDKEEP" minus the frequency variables. This creates a data frame containing only the "Subject", "Activity", and the means and standard deviations of the measurements. The frequency variables are removed because while they have "mean" or "std" in their names they are not technically measurements of a mean or standard deviation. 

The variable names are made more descriptive with a series of **gsub()** functions to replace the shorthand in the original variables names with clearer terms. The modified variable names are then applied to the column names of *desireddata*.

The **group_by()** and **summarise_each()** functions of the **dplyr** package are then used to calculate the average values for each variable corresponding to each subject and activity in *desireddata* and a final data frame *aveactivity* is created as a result. The *aveactivity* data frame is then read out into a tab-delimited text file using the **write.table()** function.

##SCRIPT RESULT
The file produced by the script is organized by "Subject", and then "Activity", with both descriptive activity names and descriptive variable names. It has one observation per row, one variable per column, and one observational unit (the combination of "Subject" and "Activity"). This is a tidy data set as defined by the course lectures and the article by Hadley Wickham. 
